https://www.sweetstudy.com/files/322part11-28-pdf

----

15
Detention in the
Wooden Building (1910)
DETENTION IN THE WOODEN BUILDING
119
Halvad
In 1910 a new immigration station was built at Angel Island in San Francisco Bay expressly to accommodate Chinese and other Asians immigrating to the United States. For the next thirty years, until a fire destroyed the station in 1940, approximately 175,000 Chinese immigrants passed through Angel Island, where they were singled out for long detentions and intense cross-examinations to prove their right to enter the country according to the Chinese Exclusion Act. A number of the Chinese detainees left poems that they wrote or carved into the barrack walls, recording their journey to America, their longing for families back home, and their outrage and humiliation at their mistreatment in the muk-uk (wooden building).
The following poem was not written on the barrack walls but sent by a Chinese detainee to the Chinese World newspaper, where it was published on March 16, 1910. It is the earliest and longest extant poem expressing the Chinese response to their detainment at Angel Island. Similar to other poems that have been found at Angel Island, it was written in the classical style and rich with references to heroic figures who had overcome adversity. Reflecting the strong feelings of Chinese nationalism at the time, the newspaper exhorted its readers to help restore China's wealth and glory and thereby wipe out the humiliation suffered by the Chinese at Angel Island. Interestingly, fifteen lines that advocated the overthrow of the Qing dynasty and restoration of Han Chinese rule were deleted from the poem, most likely because the newspaper supported reform, rather than obliteration, of Qing rule.2 A year later, the same poem in its entirety
1. The Chinese World newspaper was founded as the weekly Mon Hing Bo in 1891. It was given its English name, Chinese World, when the Baohuanghui, or Chinese Reform Party, gained control of the newspaper in 1899. It began publishing daily in 1901, and its Chinese name was changed to Sai Gai Yat Po in 1908.
2. The Manchus conquered China in 1644 and ruled as the Qing dynasty until they were overthrown by Sun Yat-sen's Revolutionary Party in 1911.
118
One of many Chinese poems still visible at Angel Island today. (Photo by Chris Huie)
appeared in the Xinning Magazine, which was intended for the emigrant community in Taishan District. According to the editor's note at the end of this version, the poem was published to arouse the sympathy and appreciation of the sons of overseas Chinese so that they would not squander their fathers' hard-earned money. There were also minor textual differences between the two versions. We have chosen to translate and reprint the Xinning version here.
My mind often recalls Su Wu who, in maintaining his unyielding
loyalty to the Han Dynasty, would rather endure the biting snow in the freezing frontier,3
And the King of Yue who, in reminding himself to seek revenge
against the State of Wu, would sleep on firewood and lick the bitter gall bladder.4
3. During the Western Han dynasty, Su Wu (140-60 B.C.) was sent by the Chinese government as envoy to the Xiongnu, a nomadic people north of the Chinese empire. Detained there for nineteen years, he refused to renounce his loyalty to the Han emperor.
4. Goujian was king of the state of Yue (in the present province of Zhejiang). In 494 B.C. he was ignominiously defeated by King Fucha's armies from the state of Wu. Two decades later, Yue recovered and returned to defeat Wu. During Yue's recovery period, it was alleged that King Goujian slept on firewood and tasted gall bladder in order not to forget the bitterness and humiliation of his defeat.
16
120
LIFE UNDER EXCLUSION
DETENTION IN THE WOODEN BUILDING
121
Our ancestors have met adversities;
They have overcome hardships;
Their trials and tribulations are duly recognized in the history
books.
Showing their might before the barbarians,
Calming the anxiety within themselves
That would resolve my life-long yet unfilled ambitions.
And yet,
My generation is indeed unlucky;
Our lives have been most unfortunate.
We drift like tumbleweed in a foreign country;
And suffer the fate of detention as in Youli.5
When we bade farewell to our village home,
We were in tears because of survival's desperation. When we arrived in the American territory,
We stared in vain at the vast ocean.
Our ship docked
And we were transferred to a solitary island. Ten li6 from the city,
My feet stand on this lonely hill.
The muk-uk is three stories high,
Built as firmly as the Great Wall.
Room after room are but jails,
And the North Gate firmly locked.
Here
Several hundreds of my countrymen are like fish caught in a net; Half a thousand Yellow Race are like birds trapped in a mesh. As we lift our heads and look afar,
The barbarian reed pipes all the more add to our anguish and
grief.
As we cock our ear and try to listen,
The horses' neighing further worsens our solitude and sorrow.
During the day, we endure a meal of crackers and cheese,
Just like Yan Hui eating rice and water;"
5. King Wen (ca. 12th century B.C.), founder of the Zhou state, was held captive at Youli because the last Shang king regarded him as a potential threat to his rule. His son, King Wu, later defeated the Shang and established the Zhou dynasty.
6. One li is approximately one-third of a mile.
7. Yan Hui (521-490 B.C.), the poorest of Confucius's disciples, ate very simply and yet
was content.
At night, we wrap ourselves in a single blanket,
Just like Min Qian wearing clothes made of rush.8 We wash in the morning in salty tidal water; We drink murky water to quench our thirst.9 In this newly open facility
Neither land nor water is in harmony with us. Drinking the water makes many cough;
Eating the meal causes many to have sore throats.
A hundred ailments come about;
Our pain and sufferings are beyond words!
At times the barbarians would become angry with us,
They kick and punch us severely.
By chance, in their sudden cruel moment,
They would point their guns at us.
They scrutinize us like Prince Qin inspecting his soldiers;10 They trap us with schemes like Han Xin's multiple levels of
encirclement.11
Brothers cannot share words, separated by faraway mountains; Relatives cannot comfort each other, divided by the distant
horizon. 12
Inside this room
Neither Heaven nor Earth answers my cries.
Outside this prison
A hundred birds chirp in grief in the mournful woods.
A thousand animals run in fright among gloomy clouds
and mist.
This is indeed living with nature, amidst trees, rocks, deer, and
wild boars!
Alas! Heaven!
So desolate is this sight
8. Min Ziqian (536-487 B.C.), or Min Sun, a disciple of Confucius, was treated cruelly by his stepmother when he was young. She used to clothe him in rushes, which failed to keep out the winter cold.
9. At the time, the immigration station did not have any freshwater tanks. Drinking water came from a spring, which at one point contained traces of fecal contamination (letter from Acting Commissioner L. C. Steward to the Commissioner General of Immigration, December 19, 1910).
10. Li Shimin was a general before he became the second emperor of the Tang dynasty (A.D. 627-649).
11. Han Xin (d. 196 B.C.) was an important general who served the first emperor of the Han dynasty.
12. Chinese detainees were not allowed visitors for fear of collusion before the immigration interrogation.
17
22
LIFE UNDER EXCLUSION
DETENTION IN THE WOODEN BUILDING
123
It is disheartening indeed.
Sorrow and hardship have led me to this place;
What more can I say about life?
Worse yet,
A healthy person would become ill after repeated medical
examinations;
A private inspection would render a clothed person naked. Let me ask you, the barbarians:
Why are you treating us in such extreme?
I grieve for my fellow countrymen;
There is really nothing we can do!'
All the tall bamboo from Zhongnan Mountain cannot inscribe
our words of frustration.18
All the water in the Eastern Sea will not cleanse our sense of
humiliation.
Perhaps, we can be—
Like Emperor Min of Jin who didn't reject the shame of wearing
a blue garb and serving wine,14
Like Li Ling who pounded his chest in agony for his Han army
surrendering to the Huns.15
Our ancestors have encountered such misfortune
Why does our present generation endure the same?
In a moment of desperation,
What more can one say?
In waiting with concealed weapons for the right moment to
arrive
It is nothing but pure fantasy.
Alas,
Such tyranny of the White Race!
Such tragedy of the Yellow Souls!
Like a homeless dog forced into a confining cage,
Like a trapped pig held in a bamboo cage, Our spirits are lost in this wintry prison;
We are worse than horses and cattle.
Our tears shed on an icy day,
We are.less than the birds and fowls.
In
my
exile to the ocean's end,
I have found enjoyment in reading newspapers.
It is said that
My old country, my native soil
Split apart like pea pods
Cut up like melons.
I mourn that
My motherland, my native culture—
Swallowed by wolves,
Digested by the tigers.
It is my wish:
Someone like Chen She will drop the ploughs on the field,16 Someone like Tian Heng will raise the righteous banner,17 And pick up the weaponsLeveling the State of Qin, Wiping out the State of Wu.
Just take a look at China today:
We the Han people must take over.
Otherwise
We will be butchered;
We will be enslaved;
We will be subjugated.
There is a difference between the true ruler and the imposter.18
How can we bear witness:
Four hundred million Chinese people, again, enslaved by other
nations?
18
13. This idea is taken from a proverb, which alludes to crimes so numerous they will not fit on slips made from all the bamboo in the Zhongnan Mountains. The ancient Chinese often wrote on bamboo slips.
14. In A.D. 316 Emperor Min of the Jin dynasty was captured by the Xiongnu and forced to perform such humiliating acts as serving wine to the victors.
15. Li Ling (d. 74 B.C.), a Han general, led an army of foot soldiers against the Xiongnu. After fighting against great odds, he was forced to surrender.
16. Chen She (d. 208 B.C.) led the first large-scale peasant rebellion recorded in Chinese history, against the Qin imperial government in 209 B.C. His forces soon expanded from nine hundred to several tens of thousands as he proclaimed himself a royal sovereign. However, he was defeated by a Qin army and subsequently assassinated by his chariot driver, who chose to surrender to the foe.
17. Tian Heng (d. 202 B.C.) was a descendant of the nobility in the state of Qi that was absorbed into the Qin empire. Toward the end of the Qin dynasty, he and his cousin led many former soldiers of Qi in a revolt to reestablish the state of Qi. However, he was defeated by the Han and fled with five hundred followers to an island. Soon afterward, the Han emperor summoned him to Luoyang, where he killed himself. When his followers on the island heard the news, they all committed suicide.
18. This is a critique of the inept rule of the Qing government in power at the time.
124
LIFE UNDER EXCLUSION
Five thousand years of civilization, like in India, obliterated?19
We feel grievious,
How can we suppress our cries?
SOURCE: Xinning Zazhi 28 (1911): 76-78. Translator: Marlon K. Hom.
OTHER-REFERENCES
Him Mark Lai, Genny Lim, and Judy Yung, Island: Poetry and History of Chinese Immi
grants on Angel Island, 1910–1940 (San Francisco: HOC-DOI, 1980).
:
:
木屋拘囚序
嘗思嚙雪餐氈,蘇武守漢朝之節:
卧薪嘗胆,越王報吳國之讎。
此稿由被囚烟埃崙木屋中人寄來。亟照 原稿登錄,以供衆覽。筆者以身受之苦,作悲 憤之文。血耶?淚耶?耶?吾知海内外同胞 讀之,必生無限激刺矣。雖然,吾同胞雖有無 限之激刺,空作楚囚之對泣,亦何濟於事。若 非發奮振作,萬衆一心,以共圖祖國之富强, 使我黃龍國旗,輝映於太平洋兩岸,未易一雪
此恥耳。
記者誌
(原刊三藩市世界日報, 一九一○年三月十六日 )
19. During this period when China was threatened by foreign powers, Chinese patriots often
used India, which was then ruled by the British, as an example to alert their countrymen to the threat of foreign aggression against China's sovereignty.
古人坎坷屢遇,
}
前輩艱辛備嘗。
!
卒克著名於史册,
振威於蠻夷,
以解衷懷之憂,
而慰畢生之願也。 獨我等時運不濟, 命途多舛。
蓬飄外國,永遭羑里之囚: 離別故鄉,頻灑窮途之淚 躬到美域,徒觀海水之汪洋: 船泊碼頭,轉撥崙之孤島。
離埠十里,托足孤峯。
三層木屋,堅如萬里長城:
幾度監牢,長扃北門鎖鑰。
!
同胞數百,難期漏網之魚: 黃種半千,恍若密羅之雀。 有時舉頭而眺,
胡笳互動,益增惆悵之悲;
或者傾耳而聽,
牧馬悲鳴,倍覺無聊之想。 日餐醬酪,步顏子之簞瓢: 夜蓋單氊,同閔騫之蘆服。 朝則,盡是鹹潮: 時而飲滋,無非濁水。 矧遐荒新聞,水土欠和
飲焉而咳嗽者甚繁, 啜焉而喉痛者不少。 病端百出,苦楚難云。
間有偶觸胡怒,拳脚交加。 忽起狼心,彈炸向指。
人數目算,秦王之點兵尚存: 戎馬重圍,韓信之妙計猶在。
兄弟莫通一語,遠隔關山:
親朋欲慰寸衷,相離天壤。
處此間也,欲籲天而天無聞:
入此室也,欲叫地地不應。 且也樹木陰翳於囚外,百鳥悲啼: 雲霞垂覆於山前,千獸駭走。..
正所謂與木石居,與鹿豕遊者矣。
嗟!嗟!
觸景生情, 荒涼滿目。
愁難遣此,
命也何如?
尤有慘者,診脈幾回,無病宛然有病:
驗陰數次,裹身一若裸身。 借問犬戎,夫何使我至極?
哀哉吾輩,然亦無如之何。
雖削南山之竹,寫不盡牢騷之詞;
竭東海之波,流不淨惭愧之狀。
或者曰,狄庭行酒,晉愍不辭青衣之羞;
漢軍降奴,李陵曾作推心之訴。 古人尚如此,今人獨不忍乎? 夫事窮勢迫,亦復何言? 藏器待時,徒空想像。
嗚呼!白種強權,黃魂受慘。 叱喪家之狗,强入牢籠: 追入笠之豚,嚴加鎖鑰。
魂消雪窖,真牛馬之不如:
淚灑氷天,洵禽鳥之不若也。
但我躬既竄海曲,性品悅看報章。
稱說舊鄉故土,荳剖瓜分:
哀憐舉國斯文,狼吞虎噬。
( 中咯 )
將見四百兆之華民,重為數國之奴隸: 五千年之歷史,化為印度之危亡。 良可慨也,
尚忍言哉?
,世界日報作"鹰"
20
北遊咸道樂悠悠, 船中苦楚木樓愁。 數次審查猶未了,
太息同胞被逼留。
香山人題
余本作"惜"
ANGEL ISLAND POEMS
1. (Lai #6)
The journey to North America was said
to be an everlasting joy:
Mistreatment on board, miseries inside
the wooden building!
So much interrogation and inspection,
with no ends in sight,
Pity my fellow countrymen here, forced
to stay.
本擬舊歲來美洲,
洋蚨迫阻到初秋。 織女會牛郎哥日 乃搭林肯總統舟。 餐風嘗浪廿餘日, 幸得平安抵美洲。 以為數日可上埠,
點知苦困木樓囚。 番奴苛待真難受 感觸家境淚雙流。 但願早登三藩市, 死在此間倍添愁。
2. (Lai #7)
Originally, I planned to come America
last year.
Foreign dollars barred me from coming
until early fall.
On the festival day of the Weaving Maid
meeting the Cowherd,
I went on board the SS Lincoln.
For over twenty days, fed with wind
and waves;
Blessed, I arrived in America safely. I thought I would be going ashore in a
few days;
How was I to expect to be impisoned in
a wooden building?
Abuses from the barbarians are hard to
bear;
Conditions at home lead to two streams
of flowing tears.
I pray that I can land in San Francisco
very soon,
And spare me the additional miseries of
being here.
21
夙慕花旗幾優哉, 即時籌款動程來。 風波閱月已歷盡。
監牢居所受災磨。 仰望屋崙相咫尺,
願回祖國負耕鋤 滿腹牢騷難寢寐, 聊書數句表心裁。
3. (Lai 9)
I've longed admired Flowery Flag, a
land of opportunity.
Quickly I raised the money and took a
journey here.
After more than a month of wind and
waves,
I end up suffering in this prison cell. Looking out, Oakland is just a short
distance away;
I'd rather return to my homeland and
carry a farming hoe.
With a belly full of grievance and
resentment, I can hardly sleep.
I scribble down these few lines to pour
out what's on my mind.
鬚眉七尺愧無伸, 蜷伏圈中俯仰人。 百般忍辱徒呼負, 斯人瀝哭蒼天何?
【原作"應"
4. (Lai #24)
Shame is a man of seven feet yet unable
to stand up for himself:
Cooped up in confinement, controlled
by someone else.
I've tried hundreds of ways to endure the humiliation, all in vain.
Heaven! This man's tears are falling:
what are you going to do?
22
無限滄桑感, 覊身此樓中。 青山飛不去, 綠水阻英雄。 率爾投筆去, 徒勞反無功。 慎言誠在我, 無語怨東風。
阮題
5. (Lai #25)
Such a long time: oceans have become
mulberry groves.
I am still stranded in this building.
No way can one fly over green
mountains;
The blue waves can stop any brave men. Too hastily I've given up my writing
brush for this;
My laborious efforts are now all in vain. I know I should be careful when I talk;
What can I say--I can only blame
everything on the eastern wind.
43
拋離鄉井别椿萱,
遠盼雲山淚盈珠。
遊子志欲陶朱富, 誰知被埃崙間?
椎膺中華囊阮籍, 利權外溢國恥兼。 同胞知機圖奮志, 誓奪美國報前仇。
原作"撫"
6. (Lai #43)
I leave behind the village well, bidding
my parents farewell.
A glance at distant clouds and
mountains leads to tears flooding my eyes.
A sojourner's wish is to amass a hefty
fortune;
Who expects to be in prison on Island?
I pound my chest and cry loudly for my
poor China:
She suffers indignity, her wealth and sovereignity taken away.
My fellow countrymen, be wise, be
resolute!
Let's take over America, and get even!
23
A Gold Mountain Man's Monologue
Jann Mon Fong (Smiley Jann) Translated by Marion K. Hom
Editor's Note: Jann Mon Fong (aka Smiley Jann) was born in 1913 in Longdu, Zhongshan District, Guangdong. He completed eight years of schooling before his father bought papers for him to immigrate to America as Sue Sow Fung, the son of a Chinese woman who had been born in Modesto, CA. In 1931, he boarded the President McKinley bound for San Francisco with high hopes of finding a better livelihood. Upon arrival, his hopes were dashed by the harsh treatment he received from immigration officials at Angel Island. His three-week confinement there so angered him that he decided to write home about it. "I wanted my classmates to know that America is not as great as everyone thinks, that we actually suffered a great deal of humiliation," he said many years later in an interview.1 His essay, "A Gold Mountain Man's Monologue," sat on his desk for four years before he decided to send it, not realizing that his friends in Shanghai would submit it to the journal, Ren Jian Shi (People's World), for publication. It is a rare and emotional first-hand account of how Chinese immigrants responded with indignation to their mistreatment at Angel Island.
We were lucky to have been able to interview Smiley Jann in 1976, because he not only called our attention to this essay, but he also shared his notebook of ninety-nine poems that he had carefully copied from the barrack walls of Angel Island when he was detained there. "The poems were written all over the walls at Angel Island, wherever the hand could reach, even in the lavatories," he told us. He remembered feeling overwhelmed with grief and bitterness as he copied them. In his opinion, "They are not great poems, but they express true feelings." He understood that "the poems represent the earliest literary expression of overseas Chinese and serve as an important record of Chinese American history." Thanks to Jann Mon Fong and his foresight, we now have a better understanding of what actually happened at Angel Island as well as a deeper appreciation for the courage, perseverance, and literary skills shown by these early Chinese immigrants.
Whenever there was an air-horn-blasting, foreign steamship arriving at port, there would be our countrymen among the passengers returning home after striking it rich in foreign soil. Their suitcases were filled with foreign dollars that would enable them to pursue all the comforts and needs for their triumphant homecoming. They would also speak of the sights and sounds of the Gold Mountain, and show off their riches. This was indeed the envy of everyone. I, too, could not resist that envy and temptation for wealth, and for some time had so wished for the opportunity to go overseas.
Time passed and without realizing it, I had become a young adult. Money also became a desperately needed commodity in those years of worldwide depression. My mind was preoccupied with the thought of leaving home to seek a living. Three years ago, at the time of the summer solstice when apricots were ripening, I spent a huge sum of money in silver dollars to buy a slot to come to America. By next summer when the lychees were in season, I left home, bidding farewell to my beloved parents.
It took only a few hours to get to Hong Kong from Chungshan. But the United States Consulate in Hong Kong dictated that all U.S.-bound Chinese people must report at least half a month in advance for pre-departure immunizations and the physical examination. It was done, as they said, so that we would go to the wonderfully sanitized United States with a clean and healthy
Smiley Jann, interview in Cantonese with Him Mark Lai and Judy Yung, San Francisco, CA, January 4, 1976, Interview #32, Angel Island Oral History Project, Ethnic Studies Library, UC Berkeley.
2 The essay was published in Ren Jian Shi, March 5, 1935, 15-16.
1
24
body, after clearing all the dirty and harmful substances inside our body system. For the sake of economic advancement in America, and like all my fellow countrymen, I subjected myself to this ridiculous process. Still, I didn't comprehend the implications behind it.
Braving the winds and waves for twenty days, the ship finally docked. The returning Gold Mountain old-timers left the pier soon after their immigration inspection. We, the newcomers, were transferred by a small boat to an island located inside the Golden Gate, which was, as told by oldtimers, the immigration detention center for all incoming Chinese immigrants.
The moment we were put on the small boat, we lost all our freedom. The Americans treated us like cattle. Those green-eyed people must have considered Chinese as offspring of pigs and goats. Carrying a clothed bundle on my back and a suitcase in my hand, I was herded into the detention center under their wolf-like authority. Tears flowed down my face. Fight back? Not a chance. How could I, since I have yet to learn their language upon arrival in their land?
First, we were put inside a small room surrounded with barbed wire. Their intention was obvious, but they claimed it must be done as they reported our arrival to their superior officers. At that moment, I was in grief with the realization that my country and my people were powerless, and myself, facing an unknown and uncertain future. Now we were treated from being a herd of cattle to being hapless birds confined in a cage, ready for slaughter.
On that first day, we had breakfast before daybreak; and it wasn't until evening before we heard the call for supper. I didn't feel hungry all day, probably because I was full from being fed up with the cruel treatment there. Soon we were led into a huge prison. The moment we were all inside, they locked the door tightly. I found my bunk. Several fellow countrymen who had been detained there for some time, asked me to join the Self-governing Association that was established by the Chinese detainees. About two hundred of us detainees attended the meeting, during which the association officers told us the rules and regulations.
We were subject to yet another physical examination the next day, and the procedure was particularly humiliating, targeting our entire race. The physician ordered us to disrobe and bear the chilly sea breeze for hours. He felt our chest and spine, and ordered us to jump around like monkeys. I was not sure if this was a physical examination, or rather, an act of insult. Well, it was said that my treatment was actually light and easy. In the past, they would draw blood from our flesh to test for hookworm disease.
In the Self-governing Association office were a phonograph, some record albums, and fiction books. There was also a small playground outside the detention barrack. Like the dormitory, it was also surrounded by barbed wire. The Caucasian guards kept the key to the playground's gate. In fact, there were armed guards on patrol both inside and outside the detention barrack. Don't ever think of trying to escape; they would send you off to another world. For the Chinese held up here, there is little if any freedom accorded them!
All over the walls of the dormitory were numerous scribbling of poems, rhymes, ditties, and parallel couplets written by Chinese detainees. Being idled there without much to do, I copied them down verbatim in a notebook without any editorial changes. Here are a few examples:
[Poem 58]
May I advise you not to sneak across the barrier.
Green waters surround a green hill on four sides. Ascending to a high place, one does not see
the shore.
To cross the green waters is the most difficult
of difficulties.
58
勸君切勿來偷關, 四圍綠水繞青山。 登高遠望無涯岸,
欲渡綠水難上難。
25
2
生命堪虞君自重:
260
斯言不是作為閒
Life is worth worrying about and you should
restrain yourselves.
Do not treat these words as idle words.
Why not let them deport you back to China?
You will find some work and endure to earn
a couple of meals.
[Poem 50]
It is indeed pitiable the harsh treatment of our
fellow countrymen.
The doctor extracting blood caused us the
greatest anguish.
Our stomachs are full of grievances, but to whom
can we tell them?
We can but pace to and fro, scratch our heads,
and question the blue sky.
[Poem A6]
Flocks of fellow villagers do not refrain from spending
thousands of gold pieces to get to America.
Several hundred compatriots invested huge sums but
are now imprisoned on Island.3
[Poem A33]
Drifting alone in the ocean, autumn suddenly passed.
I have just gone through ten thousand calamities;
still I am a prisoner from Chu.a
When Wu Zixu played his flute, he thought of erasing
his grievances.
When Su Ziqing held his tasseled staff, he vowed
he would one day avenge his wrongs.6
When Jiyun shot an arrow at the enemy, he was not
doing it to meddle.?
Goujian slept on firewood, but he had a reason.R
盍任撥回歸國去?
2
霓些營生捱兩餐。
"余本作"此"
2余本作"二"
50 棄書荒硯來飄洋, 意欲把我素心揚。 難料到此遭囹圄: 壯志待酬抱恨長。 堪嘆來此如萍寄:
犠牲巨款受鬼劏 此行深願酬我志: 否則囚困苦斷腸。
1余本作"膛
O
梓里成羣,千金不惜,走美: 同胞数百,巨資投擲,困埃崙。
3 The colloquial name given to Angel Island by Cantonese immigrants.
4 l.e., a held prisoner, a person in difficult straits.
33 飄零湖海倏經秋;
萬劫繞過作楚囚。 伍子吹簫懷雪恨: 蘇卿持節誓報仇。 霽雲射矢非多事; 勾踐卧薪却有由。 激烈肝腸輕一决: 蒼天諾否此志酬。
1 余本作"撃",
5 Wu Yuan (?-485 B.C.) or Wu Zixu was the son of a high official serving the King of Chu (a state in the central Yangzi River basin). His father fell into the king's disfavor and was killed together with his family. Wu Zixu, however, fled to the state of Wu (in present Jiangsu Province). Upon arrival, he had only a flute, which he played in the marketplace to beg for food. Later, Wu Zixu became an important official serving the Wu king and led an army to defeat the state of Chu. His victorious legions entered the Chu capital in 506 B.C., whereupon Wu Zixu dug up the corpse of the former king and whipped it three hundred times.
* Another name for Su Wu (140--60 B.C.), who during the Western Han dynasty (206 B.C.--24 A.D.) was sent by the Chinese government as envoy to Xiongnu, a nomadic people north of the Chinese empire. Su Wu was detained there for nineteen years, but refused to renounce his loyalty to the Han emperor.
7 During the An Lushan rebellion (755-760 A.D.), the rebel army surrounded Suiyang (in present Henan Province). Nan Jiyun (? --757 A.D.) was one of the defenders of the besieged city and shot the enemy general in the left eye with one arrow.
3
27
My inflamed liver and bowels are prepared to take life
Lightly and engage in a life and death struggle.
Will the blue heavens allow me to fulfill this ambition or not?
[Poem A54]
This unworthy one with the group is grief-stricken.
Who will transmit the news of death back to the village?
I mourn your having ridden the crane to return to
the dark regions.9
A traveler arrived in America on a ship.
Tears enveloped the lonely soul as the cuckoo uttered
its mournful cry.
Sorrow has led me to dream of traveling to the
Terrace of Yang.10
It is a pity that medicine was wrongly prescribed.
The corpse was nearly cremated to ashes.
54 忝屬同彞事感哀。 訃音誰遞故鄉回? 痛君騎鹧歸冥去: 有客乘槎赴美來。 淚銷孤魂悲杜宇: 愁牽旅夢到陽台。 可憐葯石施醫誤:
險被焚尸一炬灰。
These writings are the testimonies of hardship on their journey to America. Among these writings are references to suicides due to frustration and humiliation. As I was copying them from the walls, I was overwhelmed with grief and sorrow. I wrote the following in response to what I saw on the walls:
[Poem A10]
When I left, my parents regretted it was so hurried. The reason I tearfully swallow my resentment is
because of poverty.
Wishing to escape permanent poverty, I fled overseas.
Who caused my destiny to be so perverse that I would
become imprisoned?
The victim of aggression, people of our nation mourn
the desperate times.
I feel sorely guilty for having not yet repaid my parents'
kindness.
Grieving the cold night, the insects now make noise. Not only do I sob silently, but my throat tastes bitter.
10 離時父母恨怒怒:
飲怨漣漣也為窮。
欲免長貧奔海外:
誰教命舛困囚中? 侵凌國族悲時切:
未報親恩抱罪隆。
今也鸣蟲哀冷夜:
不單幽咽苦喉嚨。
Altogether I spent twenty days in detention at the wooden barracks, two of which was for interrogation and deposition. On the afternoon of the twentieth day, I was permitted to be ferried out, and I finally landed in this place erroneously called since my childhood years, the heavenly "Gold Mountain."
Goujian was king of the state of Yue (in present Zhejiang Province). In 494 B.C. he was ignominiously defeated by King Fucha's armies from the state of Wu. Two decades later in 476 B.C., Yue recovered and returned to defeat Wu. During Yue's recovery period, it was alleged that King Goujian slept on firewood and tasted gall bladder in order not to forget the bitterness and humiliation of his defeat.
9l.e., death. In Chinese mythology, cranes are connected with immortals.
10 King Huai of Chu (328 299 B.C.) met a female immortal in a dream and had sexual relations with her. She was found every morning and evening at the foot of the Terrace of Yang, which has come to be used as an allusion to a place were men and women meet for sexual liaisons.
4
Perhaps we should think this over: We are dealt with all this difficulty and adversity when going to another's country. Yet, when they come to our country, why do they behave so superior on our home soil?
After he was landed, Jann Mon Fong adopted the name Smiley Jann and forged ahead with his life in America. He started out in Santa Barbara, California, where he worked in his paper father's dry goods store and later, as a houseboy for a wealthy family while he attended high school. Finding English difficult to learn, Jann eventually returned to San Francisco, where he married Mildred Lee, had four children, and ran a grocery store in the Western Addition neighborhood for over thirty years. He broke the racial barrier when he became the first Chinese member of the San Francisco Wholesale Grocers Association. He was an officer of the Tung Sen Benevolent Association (for people from Zhongshan) and helped to establish a scholarship program for its members. "My feeling is that if I can't achieve my goal of success, the second generation will," he told us.11
Jann took pride in seeing all four of his children graduate from college and become successful dentists, a teacher, and a computer programmer. But he never once mentioned Angel Island to them, not even after he voluntarily participated in the Confession Program and cleared his name. According to his son Arliss, "We did not even know that he had gone through the Confession Program until he said we are changing our last names from Sue to Jann."12 Nothing more was said, but the children did notice that following this incident, their father was able to return to China periodically for visits. Smiley Jann passed away in 1997 at the age of 84, leaving behind his notebook of Angel Island poems, which he had titled, "A Collection of Autumn Grass: Voices from the Hearts of the Weak."
11 Interview with Him Mark Lai and Judy Yung.
12 Arliss Jann, email correspondence with Judy Yung, July 18, 2009.
5
28